Update next part of the training (#180)
inmanta/examples: Training/1-basic-deployment.md

# Configure the network with the orchestrator

## Prequisites 

To follow these instructions, you should have alreayd completed the lab setup (either [here (opensource)](lab/readme.md)) or [here (licensed version)](lab-iso/README.md) 

## Orchestration primer

> TODO

Author: duh!

Please make sure that the orchestrator is running and that the project and environment were created like instructed on the [README.md](README.md). Don't forget to include your access token on the repository url on the [project.yml file](project.yml)

## Create a virtual environment

A Python virtual environment is an isolated workspace for a Python project, allowing you to manage  project-specific dependencies without affecting other projects or the global Python installation. 
For Inmanta projects, we always work in a virtual environment

1. execute the follow commands to create the venv

    ```shell
    mkdir -p ~/.virtualenvs
    python3 -m venv ~/.virtualenvs/inmanta-training
    source ~/.virtualenvs/inmanta-training/bin/activate
    ```
2. install the basic inmanta tools 

    ```shell
    pip install inmanta-core inmantals
    ```

## Set up a project

This folder contains a valid project. If you want to understand more about what a project is, take a look at the [Developer setup](https://docs.inmanta.com/inmanta-service-orchestrator/latest/model_developers/developer_getting_started.html).

> 1. To install the project, and its dependencies. Run the following command in this folder

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Move inside the project folder and install the project, and its dependencies:
```

    ```console
    (env) $ inmanta project install
    ```

> 2. To verify the setup is correct, run

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Verify the setup is correct:
```

    ```console
    (env) $ inmanta compile
    ```

## Register the project with the orchestrator

To be able to deploy this project, we have to register it with the orchestrator. 
To do so, run 

```console
inmanta-cli --host 172.30.0.3  project create -n training
inmanta-cli --host 172.30.0.3  environment create -n srlinux -p training --save
```

Where we create both a project and an environment:

> - An environment is a single domain of management for the orchestrator. Each environment is completely isolated from every other one. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- An environment is a single domain of management for the orchestrator. Each environment is completely isolated from all the other environments.
```

- For historic reasons, the term project has two meanings. A project (as we create here) is a folder for one or more environments. This is not the same thing as the project that has the `project.yml` which is the main entry point for the orchestrator to manage something.  

> [!NOTE] 
> the `inmanta` command is used to run command locally, the `inmanta-cli` is the remote control for the server.

> [!NOTE] 

> > `--save` writes out the `.inmanta` file. This file configures the compile export to the correct environment automatically. 

Reviewer: > the compile export to

This part is not clear

Author: tried to improve

4. Select the correct environment, go to `Resources`, and see all the elements of the desired state, being deployed.  Once again, click around to see what is happening.
    ![Alt text](images/orchestrator-resources-page.png)

4. (Optional) Investigating deployment issues.  If you didn't use exactly the same ip plan, or ospf area id or network instance name in the manual configuration as in the inmanta model, the orchestrator might struggle to push the configuration.  You would notice it as some resources would be marked as `failed`.  To fix this you have two options:
    1. Restart the lab and redeploy with the orchestrator, this model will always work on a clean lab.  But it means you will need to reconfigure the subscribers manually.
    2. Open the resource details, and look into the logs for the reason of the failure.  The resource will log the explanation from the router that rejected the config the orchestrator tried to push.  This should give you the information required to manually fix the device, until its existing configuration doesn't conflict with the one the orchestrator tries to push.

## Discovering the configuration model

> In this step we take a look a the model we deployed and try to understand it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this step we take a look at the model we deployed and try to understand it.
```

## Self healing

The orchestrator will not just push the config to the devices, but also make sure it stays there. 
The orchestrator will periodically (by default every 24h) check if all config is still correct and fix it if it isn't.
By clicking repair, we can trigger this check at any time.

For example, if we would disable ospf on one device

```console
ssh clab-srlinux-leaf1
enter candidate  private
delete network-instance default protocols ospf instance 0
commit now
```

We can now no longer ping the other routers

```console
--{ + running }--[  ]--
A:admin@leaf1# ping network-instance default 10.10.21.2
Using network instance default

```

However, if we go to the orchestrator and click 'repair' 
After a short time, the ping will start to work again.

## Dry run

> We can also use the orchestrator to determine what would change if we would deploy a specific config. This helps when automatically pushing out larger changes, without surpises. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We can also use the orchestrator to determine what would change if we would deploy a specific config. This helps when automatically pushing out larger changes, without surprises. 
```

                            interface_name="ethernet-1/1.0",
                        ),
                    ),
                ),
            ),
        ),
    )
    ```

    These entities represent the ospf configuration, and all the interfaces that should be included in it.  Once more, the entity is an exact representation of the yang config we want to push.

All of these components will form our desired state.  Take some time to play with them, and see how easy it is to deploy some changes on the different devices.  You can for example:
- Set the `purged` attribute to `true` for any interface or ospf configuration, then observe that the corresponding configuration has disappeared on the device.
- Change an ip address and see it get added to the interface.
- Change the `area_id`, and observe that the resource will fail to deploy... but why?  Well, when that change is made, we will tell the router that we want an ospf area with the given id, attached to the given interfaces.  But these interfaces are also part of the previous area, that we never told the router to remove.  Any how to make this work?  Give it a try and ask for help if you can't figure it out!

> - Set `comanaged` to `false` on any entity. This changes the management mode. When co-management is set to true (the default), we ignore all config we have no desired state about. When setting co-managed to 'false', we want the config to be exactly as specified. Anything we have desired state about is removed. This is why changing the ip address adds an ip address: the old one is no longer mentioned so we ignore it. When setting co-managed to false on any node above the ip, the old IP is removed. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Set `comanaged` to `false` on any entity. This changes the management mode. When co-management is set to true (the default), we ignore all config we have no desired state about. When setting co-managed to 'false', we want the config to be exactly as specified. Anything we have no desired state about is removed. This is why changing the ip address adds an ip address: the old one is no longer mentioned so we ignore it. When setting co-managed to false on any node above the ip, the old IP is removed. 
```

The orchestrator will periodically (by default every 24h) check if all config is still correct and fix it if it isn't.
By clicking repair, we can trigger this check at any time.

For example, if we would disable ospf on one device

```console
ssh clab-srlinux-leaf1
enter candidate  private
delete network-instance default protocols ospf instance 0
commit now
```

We can now no longer ping the other routers

```console
--{ + running }--[  ]--
A:admin@leaf1# ping network-instance default 10.10.21.2
Using network instance default

```

However, if we go to the orchestrator and click 'repair' 
After a short time, the ping will start to work again.

## Dry run

We can also use the orchestrator to determine what would change if we would deploy a specific config. This helps when automatically pushing out larger changes, without surpises. 

1. To test this, we first have to disable auto deploy. Auto deploy causes the server to automatically start deploying any new version is receives.

    1. To disable auto deploy go to `setting -> configuration`
    2. disable `auto_deploy`
    3. click `save`

>     ![dryrun](images/dryrun.png)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    ![Disable auto-deploy](images/auto_Deploy.png)
```

2. Next, make an [update to the model](#making-changes)
3. Perform an export `inmanta export`
4. If you now go to the `desired state`view, you will see that the latest version is not `active` but in a `candidate` state. This means that the orchestrator will still enforce the current intent. By exeucting a promote operation, the candidate can become active.

>     ![dryrun2](images/dryrun_2.png)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    ![dryrun](images/dryrun.png)
```

5. Now, to perform a dryrun, click `Compare with current state` in the kebab menu for the `candidate` version. 

>     ![dryrun3](images/dryrun_3.png)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    ![dryrun2](images/dryrun_2.png)
```

> 6. The orchestrator will now start to compare the desired config against the actual config
>     ![dryrun4](images/dryrun_4.png)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
6. Click on `Perform dry run`.
    ![dryrun3](images/dryrun_3.png)
7. The orchestrator will now start to compare the desired config against the actual config.
    ![dryrun4](images/dryrun_4.png)
```
